[WIP] Python clip demo (#2252)
openvinotoolkit/model_server: demos/python_demos/clip/README.md

# CLIP demo with python node {#ovms_demo_clip}

Python node execution with Openvino Model Server inference example.

> The client sends request with image_url and input_labels into the CLIP model to get the detection name based on the highest probability from CLIP model.

Reviewer: Add a few details what is does and based on what notebook it is.

```

```bash
python3 download_model.py
```

## Deploy OpenVINO Model Server with the Python calculator
Prerequisites:
-  image of OVMS with Python support and Optimum installed

Mount the `./servable` which contains:
- `postprocess.py` and `preprocess.py` - python scripts which are required for execution and use [CLIP](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/228-clip-zero-shot-image-classification/228-clip-zero-shot-convert.ipynb)
- `config.json` - which defines which servables should be loaded
- `graph.pbtxt` - which defines MediaPipe graph containing python calculators

```bash
cd demos/python_demos/clip
docker run -it --rm -p 9000:9000 -v ${PWD}/servable:/workspace -v ${PWD}/model:/model/ openvino/model_server:py --config_path /workspace/config.json --port 9000
```

## Requesting detection name

Run the client script
```bash
python3 client.py --url localhost:9000
```

Expected output:
```bash
Using image_url:
https://storage.openvinotoolkit.org/repositories/openvino_notebooks/data/data/image/coco.jpg

Using input_labels:
['cat', 'dog', 'wolf', 'tiger', 'man', 'horse', 'frog', 'tree', 'house', 'computer']

Detection:

> dog

Reviewer: can we include perf indicators? We should confirm perf impact and switch to a steam if unary have noticeable impact

> # CLIP demo with python node {#python_clip_image_classification}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# CLIP image classification {#ovms_demo_clip_image_classification}
```

Reviewer 2: also change the name of the whole catalog to `clip_image_classification`

> # CLIP demo with python node {#ovms_demo_clip}

Reviewer 2: Can we extend the name of demo catalog to something like:
`clip_image_classification`, so it's more descriptive?

> Python node execution with Openvino Model Server inference example.

Reviewer 2: If documentation is merged before this PR, please reference it in this line

> The client sends request with image and input_labels into the CLIP model to get the detection name based on the highest probability from CLIP model. The preprocess python script node is executed first in graph and prepares inputs vector based on user inputs sent from client. Then inputs are used to get similarity matrix from inference. After that postprocess python script node is executed and calcualtes the most probable name from the input labels and sends it back to the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client sends request with an image and input labels to the graph and receives the label with the highest probability. The preprocessing python node is executed first and prepares inputs vector based on user inputs from the request. Then inputs are used to get similarity matrix from inference on the CLIP model. After that postprocessing python node is executed and extracts the label with highest score among the input labels and sends it back to the user.
```

> The client sends request with image and input_labels into the CLIP model to get the detection name based on the highest probability from CLIP model. The preprocess python script node is executed first in graph and prepares inputs vector based on user inputs sent from client. Then inputs are used to get similarity matrix from inference. After that postprocess python script node is executed and calcualtes the most probable name from the input labels and sends it back to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client sends request with an image and a list of labels into the CLIP model to perform the classification. The preprocess python script nodes are executed first in graph and perform image encoding and strings tokenization. Then Clip model gets similarity matrix. Finally the postprocess python script node calculates the most probable class name and returns it back to the client.
```

Demo is based on this [CLIP notebook](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/228-clip-zero-shot-image-classification/228-clip-zero-shot-convert.ipynb)

> CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training) is a neural network trained on various (image, text) pairs. It can be instructed in natural language to predict the most relevant text snippet, given an image, without directly optimizing for the task. CLIP uses a ViT like transformer to get visual features and a causal language model to get the text features. The text and visual features are then projected into a latent space with identical dimensions. The dot product between the projected image and text features is then used as a similarity score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The graph below depictures the data flow in the node execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The picture below shows the execution flow in the graph.
```

![Mediapipe graph image](graph.png)

## Build image

> From the root of the repository run:

Reviewer 2: This line is obsolete if below commands clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/model_server.git
cd model_server

> make python_image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make python_image RUN_TESTS=0
```

```

## Install client requirements

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt 
```

## Download and convert model

```bash
pip3 install -r download_model_requirements.txt 
```

```bash
python3 download_model.py
```

> ## Deploy OpenVINO Model Server with the Python calculator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploy OpenVINO Model Server with the CLIP graph
```

Prerequisites:
-  image of OVMS with Python support and Optimum installed

Mount the `./servable` which contains:

> - `postprocess.py` and `preprocess.py` - python scripts which are required for execution and use [CLIP](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/228-clip-zero-shot-image-classification/228-clip-zero-shot-convert.ipynb)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `postprocess.py` and `preprocess.py` - python scripts which are required for execution and use of [CLIP](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/228-clip-zero-shot-image-classification/228-clip-zero-shot-convert.ipynb) model
```
